---
layout: post
title: A Beginner's Guide to Staying Anonymous on the Darknet
tags: tutorial guide darknet tor anonymity OPSEC
---

## Introduction

Whether you are an activist under an oppressive regime or a drug buyer or simply want to prevent by any means that your Harry Styles fanfiction is traced back to you, there are many reasons to stay anonymous when browsing the internet. Achieving anonymity is another case of the old balancing act between security and usability. Many darknet and anonymity guides fail to acknowledge this and simply advise their readers to take the most secure possible path without any consideration of usbility. This approach is definitely understandable as the consequences of de-anonymization are potentially catastrophic for some people. However, the (imo) more important factor in staying anonymous online is the human one. Everyone makes a mistake at some point and the more complicated we make the process of staying anonymous the more likely the occurence of a critical mistake becomes.
Consider therefore these two critical questions before you start creating TailsOS sticks or subscribing to a VPN.

1. What do I want to do on the internet/darknet?
2. Who am I trying to stay anonymous from?

Your individual anonymity solution might look very different depending on your answers to these questions. Protecting against discovery from an authorative government for example requires a whole different. I'm assuming you are not trying to be a large scale arms dealer on a darknet marketplace as a beginner to OPSEC but most other users should find something applicable to their situation in this guide.

### What you should know before

While this is a beginners guide you should be able to answer the following questions before attempting to follow this guide:

- What is Tor and how does it work?
  - see [Tor Project](https://support.torproject.org/about/) and [Computerphile Video](https://youtu.be/QRYzre4bf7I)

### Before we start

There are many other threats besides de-anonymization when browsing the darknet. Criminals attempting to steal your crypto wallet, scams, phishing, malware and honeypots just to name a few. The process of protecting against such threats and managing the risks is called Operations Security of OPSEC. This guide will cover some parts of general OPSEC but is mainly focused on maintaining anonymity. Further research and a sense of caution are advised.

## Hardware & Operating System

Most people don't want to buy and extra computer just for their darknet activities and even for people in high-stake situations like whistleblowers, journalists or merchants it might not be advisable. Having a second device with you might raise suspicions, attract attention and increase the chances of the device falling into the hands of the police for example. Using your everyday windows or MacOS laptop with their proprietory software, questionable privacy and various vulnerabilities however is also not advisable. Even on a fully encrypted Linux machine the chances of you leaving traces that could be recovered if the laptop is confiscated or compromised are high.
The solution: [Tails](https://tails.boum.org/index.en.html) on a USB stick
Tails is a security-focused operating system based on Debian which can be burned onto an USB stick (see [Installation Instructions](https://tails.boum.org/install/index.en.html)). When installed correctly it enables you to use any somewhat modern laptop (except M1/M2 Macs at the time of writing), boot of a USB stick and have a secure operating system that routes all your traffic through Tor and wipes all data before shuting down. No trails are left even when it comes to the worst you can still swallow the USB stick or throw it into a river. Setting up Tails shouldnt be too complicated even for the uninitiated as long as you follow the official [Installation Guide](https://tails.boum.org/install/index.en.html) and conduct their excellent [Documentation](https://tails.boum.org/doc/index.en.html). Also make sure that both your laptop and USB stick meet Tails' [system requirements](https://tails.boum.org/doc/about/requirements/index.en.html).


## Connectivity & Browser

So you have your own Laptop

## Email

## Logins, Seeds & More

## Money, Crypto & Wallets

## The Human Factor

> Disclaimer: The contents of this article are intended for educational purposes only and are not legal advice.


_Last updated 2023/02/18._
